Definition: what's a project?
This section will define just what a project is, or what a project should be.
Now here is a simple definition for project.
A temporary group activity designed to produce a unique product,
service or result.
Now notice some keywords here, temporary.
This implies a start and an end.
Group, this implies more than one person, usually a team.
And, unique, a project is something special, and not normal for the business.
Okay, let's go into a little more detail.
So here, we're going to go into a little more detail of, what's a project?
A project has a defined beginning time, a defined ending time,
a defined scope, in other words, what is we're going to go do,
and has defined resources assigned to that project.
So a project is unique, in that it is not a routine operation,
but a specific set of activities designed to accomplish a singular goal.
And what I mean by routine operation is,
those activities involved in the day-to-day functions of the business.
So, it is not a routine operation,
it is not something that's a day-to-day operation,
but in fact is a unique, special activity,
a la project, that has a specific beginning time,
ending time, defined scope, assigned resources.
Now, let's look at some project examples on the following slide.
Here are some examples.
The development of software for an improved business process.
That's an example of a project.
For example, maybe it's something like eliminate using spreadsheet extract files,
and replaced with a real time API.
Another example,
the migration of a company's computing infrastructure to the cloud.
And the project would be to migrate from an old internal system to a
cloud-based issue tracking system for example.
Another example, adding a new mobile component to your existing web application,
such as to enhance the sales order web-based system
with a mobile order status module, for example.
Lastly, projects, to be successful,
must be formally managed to deliver the on-time,
and on-budget results.
Now think of your own environment, what projects are you on?
Remember they have a start date, end date,
assigned resources, and scope, or a list of tasks,
to accomplish.
Now let's draw a further comparison between projects and operations on the next slide.